NEW: Better package splitting for multi-output recipes with negative glob in outputs/files (#5216)
conda/conda-build: docs/source/resources/define-metadata.rst

Explicit file lists are relative paths from the root of the
build prefix. Explicit file lists support glob expressions.
Directory names are also supported, and they recursively include
contents. Files installed to the prefix by host dependencies will

> be matched by glob expressions.

Reviewer: I would maybe even highlight this further with an admonition or something similar. I wasn't aware of that design issue!

Author: > with an admonition or something similar.

I don't know what you mean. You want stronger language? For example: "WARNING! Files installed to the prefix by host dependencies also will be matched by glob expressions."

> I wasn't aware of that design issue!

Yeah, I'm not sure whether this is a bug/oversight or a feature. It's definitely unexpected to me. The most active contributor in this section is @msarahan; maybe they know?

Reviewer: I meant an [admonition in the RST sense](https://documatt.com/restructuredtext-reference/admonitions.html). Triple-backtick + `warning` kind of syntax. Equivalent to this:

> [!WARNING]
> Files installed to the prefix by host dependencies also will be matched by glob expressions.

Author: Done in 642906b404b72aa3dc6b2d3342e295520585d65f

Directory names are also supported, and they recursively include
contents.

> .. warning:: When defining `outputs/files` as a list, any file in the prefix

Author: Completed

         - *.some-extension
         - somefolder/*.some-extension

> Files can be excluded by specifying `files` as a dictionary separating
> files to `include` from those to `exclude`:

Author: ```suggestion
Files can be excluded by specifying `files` as a dictionary separating
files to `include` from those to `exclude`. Files from other packages
are automatically excluded:
```

         - *.some-extension
         - somefolder/*.some-extension

Files can be excluded by specifying `files` as a dictionary separating
files to `include` from those to `exclude`. Files installed to the prefix
by host dependencies are automatically excluded when the include/exclude

> syntax is used:

Reviewer 2: We need to mention the precedence here, i.e., `exclude` entries have higher priority as per the implementation.

Reviewer 2: This mentions the new behavior, i.e., "Files [...] excluded when the include/exclude syntax is used".
But since this is a deviation from the previous "include" logic (which would be more of a `force-include` since it allows packaging pre-existing files.), I think we should make the difference more prevalent/explain the behavior for the old non-dict case more explicitly.

Author: > We need to mention the precedence here, i.e., `exclude` entries have higher priority as per the implementation.

`exclude` has a higher priority than which operation? It's unclear to me what ambiguity we would be removing by mentioning priority.

> This mentions the new behavior, i.e., "Files [...] excluded when the include/exclude syntax is used". But since this is a deviation from the previous "include" logic (which would be more of a `force-include` since it allows packaging pre-existing files.), I think we should make the difference more prevalent/explain the behavior for the old non-dict case more explicitly.

```suggestion
When using `outputs/files`, any file in the prefix (including those
installed by host dependencies) matching one of the glob expressions is
included in the output. Greater control over file matching may be
achieved by using `outputs/files/include` and `outputs/files/exclude`
glob expressions. When using include/exclude, only files installed by
the current recipe are considered. i.e. files in the prefix installed
by host dependencies are not matched.
```

Reviewer 3: > > We need to mention the precedence here, i.e., `exclude` entries have higher priority as per the implementation.
> 
> `exclude` has a higher priority than which operation?

The kind of precedence where if you do
```
  files:
    include:
      - lib/libfoo.so
    exclude:
      - lib/libfoo.so
```
the exclusion wins.

Author: It is now explained that when files match both exclude and include, they are excluded. d1b12a16537cb7507bcf9ba8e5984c3c819bdac2

Directory names are also supported, and they recursively include
contents.

.. warning::

>    When defining `outputs/files` as a list, any file in the prefix (including those installed by host dependencies) matching one of the glob expressions is included in the output.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   When defining `outputs/files` as a list without specifying `outputs/script`, any file in the prefix (including those installed by host dependencies) matching one of the glob expressions is included in the output.
```

         - *.some-extension
         - somefolder/*.some-extension

Greater control over file matching may be

> achieved by defining `files` as a dictionary separating files to
> `include` from those to `exclude`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
achieved by defining ``files`` as a dictionary separating files to
``include`` from those to ``exclude``.
```

RST 😬

When using include/exclude, only files installed by
the current recipe are considered. i.e. files in the prefix installed

> by host dependencies are excluded. include/exclude may not be used

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
by host dependencies are excluded. include/exclude must cannot be used
```
`cannot` instead of `may` since the code is strict about the fact that both can't be used together?

Reviewer 6: Just a small grammatical edit
```suggestion
by host dependencies are excluded. include/exclude must not be used
```

> simultaneously with glob expressions listed directly in `outputs/files`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simultaneously with glob expressions listed directly in ``outputs/files``.
```
